All right.
So we've seen a couple of different CSSA Suder selectors.
Now we're going to put them to use.
We're going to build a simple but hopefully meaningful demo.
It's going to be a button just a single button but it takes a couple of these pseudo classes and builds
upon them.
So here's what it looks like.
Has sort of a 3D effect.
And as I hover over this button it does nothing by the way so it's purely visual clicking it doesn't
do anything as far as functionality but I hover.
It looks like it depresses a bit.
And then I click and it depresses all the way.
So there's three states there's the intermediate state and then there's the click which is actually
the active state.
And then there's the Baystate So
so the way that this will work if you'd like to follow along and I have a starter code code pen has
nothing in it really just the markup.
So a font that I'm going to use the H-1 and the button and then everything else we do will happen on
the CSSA side.
If you don't want to follow along you don't need to.
You can just see the solution.
You can basically just click the link change the view to Ed. view and you'll see the code the way I'll
structure this is that I'll start off with the most important most relevant functionality.
The button the pseudo selectors the pseudo classes and then I'll save the styling of the background
and the H-1 here for the very end.
So if you don't care about that stuff you can skip it if you just want to see the button.
I'm going to start with that.
So without further ado let's do that.
The button has a class of PTEN.
So I'll work with that dot between and the first thing that we want to do is just remove some of the
base styles.
So this button is pretty ugly.
If you notice.
So if I click on it I get that outline.
This one does not have that.
I mean get rid of that.
It's very ugly to have that outline it's the default in most browsers so we'll say outline nothing.
Say it again and it's got.
All right.
Next I'm going to get rid of a border border none and I'm going to change the cursor to pointer.
So what that will do is as I hover over the button I get that pointer looking thing I know you call
that the cursor.
Yes.
Not a big deal but just a small thing then we're now going to move on to display in position so display
I'm going to set to block and position.
I'm going to set to relative and that part's important position because the way that we actually achieve
this effect there's a box shadow underneath here at the Baystate And if you pay attention to the bottom
edge it never changes.
It's always the same as far as this edge here but the box shadow shrinks as I hover and along with that
the button itself the lighter color shifts downwards to make it look like we're depressing it a bit
what's actually happening is that the box shadow shrinks a bit and then the button itself moves downwards
a couple of pixels.
And then when I click it switches over to the active state where the box shadow is gone and the red
the button moves down a couple more pixels to take up that same space down here.
So one more time.
Dark Shadow shrinks a bit.
I hover and then goes away completely.
So we need position to be relative in order to move the button down a couple of pixels.
So you'll see what I'm talking about just a little bit.
Once we get to those pseudo selectors.
OK.
So the next thing that we'll do is start getting into some of the colors here.
So we have the background color of the button which I have a hexadecimal.
I don't have this memorized.
It's FCD to 6.
It gives us that orange color perfect.
Then we have font size which I have 16 pixels.
Then after that we have the font weight which have 300 pixels.
We don't actually have the font that I used which I think is a railway Ledo.
I don't have that set up just yet.
We'll get to that at the end.
All right so we have that.
Next up change the font color to be white.
And there we go.
All right.
Just sort of getting there.
Next we have two that aren't crucial but I like text transform what it will do is make everything uppercase
which is how this button works.
And yes we could just change the markup to be uppercase but I like to get this way to text transform
uppercase added a little bit of spacing between the letters just two pixels spread them out a bit it
now we get on to sort of the box model stuff the padding and margin.
So padding is going to be 25 pixels
and 80 pixels.
So this is just going to make the button bigger.
So we're getting there it's the right size.
Now we need to work on the borders here and we also are going to want to center the button.
So a minor thing but we'll do margin's zero audio.
There we go.
Button nascent and center.
Now we've got the box shadow and the border radius so those are the two final touches on the base button.
So the shorter radius is going to give us those curved edges and the back shadow will give us the shadow
below.
So let's start with the border radius border radius.
Think ahead 20 pixels.
You can experiment with that.
That looks about right.
And then the box shadow.
If you haven't used box shadow there's a lot of different ways you can use it.
As far as the syntax.
I mean when you use it with two parameters you pass it first which is the X offset in the y offset.
So I'll show you a couple of examples here.
But I'm going to start with 0 and then 6 pixels and then a color and the color is another hexadecimal
just a darker shade of this basically a four to four and that gives us the dark shadow there.
So as I mentioned this is X offset and y offset.
So if I give this a bigger number like 20 pixels for the X offset.
Notice that to the right we have a much larger dark shadow that's also offset 6 pixels down.
So I could make that bigger smaller.
I could give it 0 for the Y offset.
Now it's only on the right side.
But we want it to go directly below.
So we'll do zero x offset 6 pixels Y.
And what we'll be doing is when I hover we're going to reduce that down to 4 pixels.
Maybe it's two we'll play around with it.
So we'll reduce it down and then reduce it further when we click to make it active.
OK.
So let's go back to six and that's it for the base button state.
Aside from the font which will get around to signing in a little bit.
Now that brings us to our two other states hover as well as active and hover is nice and simple.
Actually they're both very similar.
But let's start with Hover.
It's my favorite on Dot PTEN.
Colin hover you know we could also select just a button but it's better to use that class in case we
have multiple buttons on this page.
We're going to start by changing the box shadows.
Remember the box shadow shrinks the focus right and you make this bigger the darker area as I hover.
It shrinks down.
So start with that.
Oh boy that's fake.
OK.
So we have dark shadow and to start I'll just copy our previous box shadow mainly because I don't want
to type that hexadecimal again and all will do is reduce this down to 4 pixels.
So basically shrinking it.
So I'll save.
And it might be hard to see in the video.
But as I hover that box shadow change it's just a tiny bit.
But you'll also notice that it looks a little bit different.
Right it looks like the bottom of the button is moving up because that box shadow is shrinking.
It sort of makes the button look smaller but we want it to look like it's more like we're actually clicking
on it.
And to do that we need the top of the button to also move down at the same time.
And this is where the position relative comes in because I can now say top two pixels
and what that will do is shift the button down.
As you can see so are box shadows still reducing.
Let's see if I can zoom in more area shadow goes away or it doesn't go away but it shrinks and the whole
button looks like it's being clicked.
All right.
Moving onto the next state which is going to be active.
So in that state we want the button to look like it's fully depressed.
The box shatter should be gone entirely but we're not just removing the dark shadow because that would
make it look like the button shrinks like we saw in the previous example.
We want to also shift the button down a couple more pixels.
So we'll start with our DOT PTEN active and we can start with BOQ shadow.
And to remove the bark shadow you could just use the exact same syntax and just change it to be 00 which
is effectively removing it or at least not letting us see it.
So see if you can tell.
A click.
There is no box shadow at all.
Here we go.
Regular state hover active box shadow is gone.
So that's one way to do it.
We can also say box shadow none.
And save either one.
Then the only other thing we need to do is move the top down because it now looks like the bottom of
the button is just jumping upwards of it just not what we want.
So to achieve that we just do top.
And I think what I had was 6 pixels for this one let's just triple check how that looks.
It's really up to us to finesse it and figure out what works.
But I think that looks good origo perfect.
So the math checks out.
We have six pixel Vocht shadow and the first date.
And then we're redistributing it.
We're removing the top down to pixels and shrinking the black shadow to four and then we're removing
the buckshot in the final state and moving everything down to be six pixels offset perfect.
So that's it for the button itself.
So you can leave this video if you haven't already.
If you want to see the rest the styling I'm going to do that very quickly.
It's not that exciting but if you just like to be a part of it you'd like to kind of have the exact
same end result as me.
First thing I'll do is go up top and I'm going to select the body and start with just setting the background
color making it this yellow.
So it's just background dash color and then we'll have a hexadecimal which is f c d is 0 for b f c d
zero for B.
There we go.
All right.
Looking closer.
Now let's apply this font font family.
Ledo is the font that I included here.
All right we got that change that's also set the color to be white.
OK.
So are one is close.
Now all we need to do is center it and change the font.
Wait so we'll select the H one all h ones and we'll change the text a line to be Center.
There we go.
And our font weight is 300.
This button does nothing looks.
Ok enough.
We've got our quick states where actually our hover and then our active state matching what we had earlier.
If you'd like to see this in more of a full screen if you'd like to admire your handiwork can go to
change view look at it as a full page.
Awesome.
So if you'd like to play around with it change colors change some of the dimensions.
Add another button that is offset to the right or to the left instead of down.
And make sure you change the box châteaux appropriately.
But you can make it look like you know you have a three dimensional button from a different perspective.
Cool.
So that's it.
So in the next video.